Hey guys welcome back to the chorus.
Now in the last lecture we talked about common content types.
Those are some of the popular formats like listicle interviews and ultimate guides and those are the
proven ways to present and structure the stuff you write.
But also a good Quickstart Guide to Getting something out there.
But now we need to talk about what you're going to write about and in order to be successful in that
there are two things that we need to take into consideration.
First thing is category and the second thing is scope.
Now your category is going to be the subject matter that's relevant to your audience.
This is what they want to hear about.
By this point you should have a pretty solid idea of what your category is.
Take the example of that hardware store Lowe's its home improvement store they sell building materials
kitchen appliances and all kinds of tools for the home.
They create content about Home Improvement and all that seems kind of obvious.
That's the point.
But what if your category isn't that obvious if you're an app that say finds the Close's yoga class.
What exactly is your category.
Well you could choose in this case yoga and talk about yoga things but you could also go a similar categories
just like healthy living or spirituality.
It's going to help you decide which category you're going to tackle and if you're going to mix and match.
Just make sure if you are indeed going to cover say spirituality that is in line with how you see your
business and it's in line with what your customers care about.
Maybe your type of yoga doesn't necessarily lend itself to the crowd that also needs spiritual advice.
So knowing your category is one part of figuring out your topics your scope on the other hand.
Yes I can say other hand refers to how much within a category you're going to cover.
You want to write about as many relevant topics as possible within your category.
That's what we call a broad approach to scope.
Sometimes you want a broad approach if you know that you have a wide range of customers coming from
many different industries.
Let's go back to that Lowe's dotcom example.
Their audience includes a range of people interested in home improvement topics but they could be home
owners needed to fix things or do it yourselfers working on a new project.
The Lowe's blog includes tons of tutorials with relevant topics things like electrical repair window
installation lawn care how to install shower tiles you name it.
Their scope is broad because their customers are a wide ranging group of people and the customer needs
to cover a wide range of information.
But if you're thinking yeah I don't want to write about a ton of different things or I don't have the
time nobody else is helping me write this stuff.
I need something more focused.
That's totally cool.
Stead of a broad approach you can go with a narrow approach.
All that means is that within your category you're going to focus on just a few specific items or concepts.
If a broad approach is like a food court at the airport with every possible type of food imaginable
the narrow approach just like the food truck on the street that only sells Korean BBQ.
That's their focus.
They're awesome at it.
And now I'm hungry.
Forget food for a second and let me show you an actual example of this.
There are company companies here well we're going to talk about them again.
They're a productivity tool that helps people connect popular softwares together so they can share data
and complete commands in unison or to put their apps in sequence whatever.
Here has a content strategy that is very focused.
If you go to Zafira dot com It's spelled like rapier but with a Z.
Yeah I know that didn't really help anything at all so just put it on the screen go to the blog section
and at the top of the blog page you'll see the following be the first to hear about the best apps in-depth
productivity gadgets and tips to grow your business while their customers might come from a wide range
of industries.
Appier is choosing to focus their content ever on a narrow range of topics.
So how exactly do you choose between a broad and a narrow scope.
You have to review your customer needs and consider how many of them you intend on supporting through
your content.
Member Lowe's home improvement if you forgot is impressive because like three minutes ago their customers
are coming to them in search of a broader range of products for their home with a broader range of needs.
So it makes sense that blows uses a broad content strategy to satisfy them.
The other hand Zopyrus focus is that there are a productivity app and therefore customers are coming
to them to help with productivity.
They might also have other needs outside of that like marketing or finance or shipping.
But these needs are largely irrelevant to Zappia because they're out of their scope.
Xavier wants to focus on productivity with their content and it's a narrow scope and well it works for
them.
OK so let's talk a little bit about your market and its saturation.
Now you might ask What if someone already covers my topic in depth and they have a lot of content already.
If there are popular blogs mini sites video series or even books about topics you want to cover.
That's actually a good thing and I know it's counterintuitive what that means is that there's already
an established audience out there consuming and actively looking for this information.
They really don't really worry as if absolutely nobody is covering the topics you want.
A lot of people worry about being unique and that's fine but be unique in the way you write about these
topics not by choosing a topic no one cares about and no one is searching for.
OK so we've got our category and we've got our scope in mind to move forward with this.
I think we should write these down because it's going to help us come up with topic ideas for our categories.
Go ahead write it down type it into Google Docs spreadsheet or whatever you chose put it down somewhere
so we can refer back to it as we move forward.
Once you've got your category written down somewhere you should go out and see what others in that category
are writing about you know get a sense of what people are talking about in your space right now if you
are close you go to Google and you search for home improvement blog if you're Zappia or you probably
go and search for productivity blog.
You can try other combinations too to look beyond blogs.
You can do basic things like Hoban movement tips or productivity checklists search or things that you
think your audience would actually be looking for.
So let me go to Google now and let's just do that let's just type in home improvement tips for writing
content for Loew's I'd search for this and see what other people are doing.
OK one of the top results is a post from lifehacker which I know from checking out their site before
that they have a very broad content strategy scope.
They write about home improvement but also things like Hak and your home with smart tools how to pay
bills that are really just all sorts of things that feel like shortcuts and feel like hacks.
Their scope is beyond where I want to go.
You might find good home improvement articles from them but I'm more interested in a site that has my
same focus.
There are a few spots down from them I can see home tips come home improvement ideas and answers you
can trust.
Well that sounds closer to what I would create if I were close.
Let's cook in here and let's see what's up.
All right.
So right at the top I can already see that this is promising.
Their menu list lots of the same category as at Lowe's sells appliances heating and cooling stuff plumbing
electrical equipment plus above that in the blue section they've got some content types buying guides
how things work how to articles.
So it's like a pretty good match of our clothes.
So I'm going to bookmark this site just come back to it later and I have some time to really dig in
the articles.
For now I'm just making a list of sites to get started.
Here's another tip I suggest it can be helpful to you if you subscribe to the emails from these Web
sites.
When you're busy and you don't have time to do the research they just email their stuff right to you.
Plus if they're a competitor it's a good idea to keep in mind what they're covering and see what they're
up to.
It won't take you very long after going through their stuff to get some inspiration for things you should
write about.
So that process we described right there.
You can use to find sites that match your content category and scope.
Go to Google search for your category look for good articles or sites visit them and just add them to
your list for digestion later.
OK so I want you to try this for yourself.
Coming up I want to dig into sites you found a look for topics you can use for your own site.
So go ahead.
Fire up Google and get googling and I'll see you in the next lecture.